Anna Eleanor Roosevelt was the longest-serving First Lady of the United
States, holding the post from 1933 to 1945 during her husband President
Franklin D. Roosevelt's four terms in office. President Harry S. Truman later
called her the "First Lady of the World" in tribute to her human rights
 achievements. Born into a wealthy and well-connected New York family, 
the Roosevelts, Eleanor had an unhappy childhood, suffering the deaths of
 both parents and one of her brothers at a young age. At 15, she attended
 Allenwood Academy in London, and was deeply influenced by feminist
 headmistress Marie Souvestre. Returning to the US, she married her cousin
 Franklin Roosevelt in 1905. The Roosevelts' marriage was complicated from
 the beginning by Franklin's controlling mother, Sara and after discovering
 Franklin's affair with Lucy Mercer in 1918, Eleanor resolved to seek
 fulfillment in a public life of her own. She persuaded Franklin to stay in
 politics following his partial paralysis from polio, and began to give speeches
 and campaign in his place. After Franklin's election as Governor of New
 York, Eleanor regularly made public appearances on his behalf. She had also
 shaped the role of First Lady during her tenure and beyond. Though widely
 respected in her later years, Roosevelt was a controversial First Lady for her
 outspokenness, particularly her stands on racial issues. She was the first
 presidential spouse to hold press conferences, write a syndicated newspaper
 column, and speak at a national convention. On a few occasions, 
she publicly disagreed with her husband's policies. She launched an
 experimental community at Arthurdale, West Virginia for the families of
 unemployed miners, later widely regarded as a failure. She advocated for
 expanded roles for women in the workplace, the civil rights of African
 Americans and Asian Americans, and the rights of World War II refugees.
 Following her husband's death, Eleanor remained active in politics for the
 rest of her life. She pressed the US to join and support the United Nations
 and became one of its first delegates. She served as the first chair of the
 UN Commission on Human Rights, and oversaw the drafting of the Universal
 Declaration of Human Rights. Later she chaired the John F. Kennedy
 administration's Presidential Commission on the Status of Women. By her
 death, she was regarded as "one of the most esteemed women in the world"
 and "the object of almost universal respect". In 1999, she was ranked in the
 top ten of Gallup's List of Most Widely Admired People of the 20th Century.&