Martin Luther King, Jr. was an American clergyman, activist, and leader in
 the African-American Civil Rights Movement. He is best known for his role
 in the advancement of civil rights using nonviolent civil disobedience. 
King has become a national icon in the history of American progressivism. 
A Baptist minister, King became a civil rights activist early in his career. 
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott and helped found the Southern
 Christian Leadership Conference(SCLC) in 1957, serving as its first
 president. With the SCLC, King led an unsuccessful struggle against
 segregation in Albany, Georgia, in 1962, and organized nonviolent protests in
 Birmingham, Alabama, that attracted national attention following television
 news coverage of the brutal police response. King also helped to organize
 the 1963 March on Washington, where he delivered his "I have a dream"
 speech. There, he established his reputation as one of the greatest orators 
in American history. He also established his reputation as a radical, and
 became an object of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's COINTELPRO for
 the rest of his life. FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties, 
recorded his extramarital liaisons and reported on them to government
 officials, and on one occasion, mailed King a threatening anonymous letter 
that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide. On October
 In 1964, King received the Nobel Peace Prize for combating racial inequality
 through nonviolence. In 1965, he and the SCLC helped to organize the
 Selma to Montgomery marches and the following year, he took the
 movement north to Chicago. In the final years of his life, King expanded his
 focus to include poverty and the Vietnam War, alienating many of his
 liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled "Beyond Vietnam". King was planning
 a national occupation of Washington, D.C., called the Poor People's
 Campaign. King was assassinated on April 4, 1968, in Memphis, Tennessee. 
His death was followed by riots in many U.S. cities. Allegations that James
 Earl Ray, the man convicted of killing King, had been framed or acted in
 concert with government agents persisted for decades after the shooting,
 and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a
 conspiracy against King. King was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom
 and the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously. Martin Luther King, 
Jr. Day was established as a U.S. federal holiday in 1986. Hundreds of streets
 in the U.S. have been renamed in his honor. A memorial statue on the
 National Mall was opened to the public in 2011.&