Albert Einstein was a German-born theoretical physicist who developed
the general theory of relativity,
one of the two pillars of modern physics 
(alongside quantum mechanics).
While best known for his mass
?energy equivalence formula E = mc2 
(which has been dubbed "the world's most famous equation"),
he received the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics
"for his services to theoretical physics, and especially
for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect".
The latter was pivotal in establishing quantum theory.
Near the beginning of his career,
Einstein thought that Newtonian mechanics was no longer
enough to reconcile the laws of classical mechanics 
with the laws of the electromagnetic field.
This led to the development of his special theory of relativity.
He realized, however, 
that the principle of relativity could also be extended
to gravitational fields,
and with his subsequent theory of gravitation in 1916,
he published a paper on the general theory of relativity.#
He continued to deal with problems of statistical mechanics
and quantum theory, which led to his explanations
of particle theory and the motion of molecules.
He also investigated the thermal properties of light
which laid the foundation of the photon theory of light.
In 1917, Einstein applied the general theory of relativity
to model the large-scale structure of the universe.
He was visiting the United States
when Adolf Hitler came to power in 1933
and did not go back to Germany, where he had been a professor
at the Berlin Academy of Sciences. He settled in the U.S.,
becoming an American citizen in 1940. 
On the eve of World War II,
he endorsed a letter to President Franklin D. Roosevelt alerting him
to the potential developing of
"extremely powerful bombs of a new type"
and recommending that the U.S. begin similar research.
This eventually led to what would become the Manhattan Project.
Einstein was in support of defending the Allied forces,
but largely denounced using the new discovery 
of nuclear fission as a weapon.
Later, with the British philosopher Bertrand Russell,
Einstein signed the Russell?Einstein Manifesto,
which highlighted the danger of nuclear weapons.
Einstein was affiliated with the Institutefor Advanced Study in Princeton,
New Jersey, until his death in 1955. Einstein published more than
300 scientific papers along with over 150 non-scientific works.
His great intellectual achievements
and originality have made the word "Einstein" 
synonymous with genius.&