Isaac Newton was an English physicist and mathematician
who is widely regarded as one of the most influential scientists
of all time and as a key figure in the scientific revolution.
His book Philosophi©¡ Naturalis Principia Mathematica
("Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy"),
first published in 1687, laid the foundations 
for most of classical mechanics. Newton also made
seminal contributions to optics and shares credit
with Gottfried Leibniz for the invention of the infinitesimal calculus.
Newton's Principia formulated the laws of motion
and universal gravitation that dominated scientists' view
of the physical universe for the next three centuries.
It also demonstrated that the motion of objects on the Earth
and that of celestial bodies could be described by the same principles.
By deriving Kepler's laws of planetary motion
from his mathematical description of gravity,
Newton removed the last doubts about the validity
of the heliocentric model of the cosmos.
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope
and developed a theory of colour based
on the observation that a prism decomposes white light
into the many colours of the visible spectrum.
He also formulated an empirical law of cooling
and studied the speed of sound. In addition
to his work on the calculus, as a mathematician Newton
contributed to the study of power series,
generalised the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents.
and developed Newton's method 
for approximating the roots of a function.
Newton was a fellow of Trinity College
and the second Lucasian Professor of Mathematics
at the University of Cambridge.
He was a devout but unorthodox Christian and, unusually
for a member of the Cambridge faculty,
he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England,
perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism.
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences,
Newton also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy
and biblical chronology, but most of his work 
in those areas remained unpublished until long after his death.
In his later life, Newton became president of the Royal Society.
He also served the British government as Warden
and Master of the Royal Mint.&