Jack Roosevelt "Jackie" Robinson 
was an American baseball player 
who became the first African American to play 
in Major League Baseball (MLB) in the modern era. 
Robinson broke the baseball color line 
when the Brooklyn Dodgers started him 
at first base on April 15, 1947. 
As the first major league team to play a black man 
since the 1880s, the Dodgers ended racial segregation 
that had relegated black players to the Negro leagues 
for six decades. The example of Robinson's character 
and unquestionable talent challenged the traditional basis 
of segregation, which then marked many other aspects 
of American life, and contributed significantly 
to the Civil Rights Movement.In addition to his cultural impact, 
Robinson had an exceptional baseball career. Over ten seasons, 
Robinson played in six World Series and contributed 
to the Dodgers' 1955 World Championship. 
He was selected for six consecutive All-Star Games, 
from 1949 to 1954, was the recipient 
of the inaugural MLB Rookie of the Year Award in 1947, 
and won the National League Most Valuable Player Award 
in 1949?the first black player so honored. #
Robinson was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1962. 
In 1997, Major League Baseball "universally" 
retired his uniform number, 42, across all major league teams; 
he was the first pro athlete in any sport to be so honored. 
Initiated for the first time on April 15, 2004, 
Major League Baseball has adopted a new annual tradition, 
"Jackie Robinson Day", 
on which every player on every team wears number 42.
Robinson was also known for his pursuits 
outside the baseball diamond. 
He was the first black television analyst in MLB, 
and the first black vice-president 
of a major American corporation. In the 1960s, 
he helped establish the Freedom National Bank, 
an African-American-owned financial institution based 
in Harlem, New York. In recognition of his achievements 
on and off the field, Robinson 
was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal 
of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal.&