Asia, the largest continent, stretches from the eastern Mediterranean Sea to
 the western Pacific Ocean. There are more than 40 countries in Asia. Some
 are among the most-populated countries in the world, including China,
 India, and Indonesia. Sixty percent of the Earth¡¯s population lives in Asia. 
More than a third of the world¡¯s people live in China and India alone.
The continent of Asia includes many islands, some of them countries. 
The Philippines, Indonesia, Japan, and Taiwan are major island nations in
 Asia. Most of Asia¡¯s people live in cities or fertile farming areas near river
 valleys, plains, and coasts. The plateaus in central Asia are largely
 unsuitable for farming and are thinly populated.Asia accounts for almost a
 third of the world¡¯s land. The continent has a wide range of climate regions,
 from polar in the Siberian Arctic to tropical in equatorial Indonesia. 
Parts of central Asia, including the Gobi Desert in China and Mongolia, are
 dry year-round. Southeast Asia, on the other hand, depends on the annual
 monsoons, which bring rain and make agriculture possible.Monsoon rains
 and snowmelt feed Asian rivers such as the Ganges, the Yellow, the Mekong,
 the Indus, and the Yangtze. The rich valley between the Tigris and
 Euphrates rivers in western Asia is called the ¡°Fertile Crescent¡± for its place
 in the development of agriculture and human civilization.Asia is the most
 mountainous of all the continents. More than 50 of the highest peaks in the
 world are in Asia. Mount Everest, which reaches more than 8,700 meters
 (29,000 feet) high in the Himalaya range, is the highest point on Earth. 
These mountains have become major destination spots for adventurous
 travelers.Plate tectonics continuously push the mountains higher. 
As the landmass of India pushes northward into the landmass of Eurasia,
 parts of the Himalayas rise at a rate of about 2.5 centimeters (1 inch) every
 five years. Asia contains not only the Earth¡¯s highest elevation, but also its
 lowest place on land: the shores of the Dead Sea in the countries of Israel
 and Jordan. The land there lies more than 390 meters (1,300 feet) below sea
 level.Although the Eurasian Plate carries most of Asia, it is not the only
 one supporting major parts of the large continent. The Arabian Peninsula, 
in the continent¡¯s southwest, is carried by the Arabian Plate. The Indian Plate
 supports the Indian peninsula, sometimes called the Indian subcontinent. 
The Australian Plate carries some islands in Indonesia. The North American
 Plate carries eastern Siberia and the northern islands of Japan.&