Europe, the sixth-largest continent, contains just 7 percent of the world¡¯s
 land. In total area, the continent of Europe is only slightly larger than the
 country of Canada. However, the population of Europe is more than twice 
that of South America. Europe has more than 40 countries and many of the
 world¡¯s major cities, including London, England; Paris, France; Berlin,
 Germany; Rome, Italy; Madrid, Spain; and Moscow, Russia. Most European
 countries have access to the ocean. The continent is bordered by the Arctic
 Ocean in the north, the Atlantic Ocean in the west, the Caspian Sea in the
 southeast, and the Mediterranean and Black Seas in the south. 
The nearness of these bodies of water and thenavigation of many of Europe¡¯s
 rivers played a major role in the continent¡¯s history. Early Europeans
 learned the river systems of the Volga, Danube, Don, Rhine, and Po, and
 could successfully travel the length and width of the small continent for
 trade, communication, or conquest.Navigation and exploration outside of
 Europe was an important part of the development of the
 continent¡¯seconomic, social, linguistic, and political legacy. European
 explorers were responsible for colonizing land on every continent except
 Antarctica. This colonization process had adrastic impact on the economic 
and political development of those continents, as well as Europe.In the east,
 the Ural Mountains separate Europe from Asia. The nations of Russia and
 Kazakhstan straddle both continents. Another range, the Kj©ªlen Mountains,
 extends along the northern part of the border between Sweden and Norway.
 To the south, the Alps form an arc stretching from Albania to Austria, then
 across Switzerland and northern Italy into France. As the youngest and
 steepest of Europe¡¯s mountains, the Alps geologically resemble the Rockies
 of North America, another young range. A large area of gently rolling plains
 extends from northern France eastward to the Urals. A climate of warm
 summers, cold winters, and plentiful rain helps make much of this European
 farmland very productive. The climate of Western Europe, especially around
 the Mediterranean Sea, makes it one of the world¡¯s leadingtourism
 destinations.Almost all of Europe sits on the massive Eurasian Plate.&