South America is connected to North America by the narrow Isthmus of
 Panama. These two continents weren¡¯t always connected; they came
 together only 3 million years ago. South America is the fourth-largest
 continent and extends from the sunny beaches of the Caribbean Sea to the
 frigidwaters near the Antarctic Circle. South America¡¯s southernmost islands,
 called Tierra del Fuego, are less than 1,120 kilometers (700 miles) from
 Antarctica. These islands even host some Antarctic birds, such as penguins,
 albatrosses, and terns. Early Spanish explorers visiting the islands for the
 first time saw small fires dotting the land. These fires, made by indigenous
 people, seemed to float on the water, which is probably how the islands got
 their nameTierra del Fuego means "Land of Fire."The Andes, the Earth¡¯s
 longest terrestrial mountain range, stretch the entire length of South
 America. Many active volcanoes dot the range. These volcanic areas are
 fueled by heat generated as a large oceanic plate, called the Nazca Plate,
grinds beneath the plate carrying South America.The central-southern area
 of South America has pampas, or plains. These rich areas are ideal for
 agriculture. The growing of wheat is a major industry in the pampas. 
Grazing animals, such as cattle and sheep, are also raised in the pampas
 region.In northern South America, the Amazon River and its tributaries flow
 through the world¡¯s largest tropical rain forest. In volume, the Amazon is
 the largest river in the world. More water flows from it than from the next
 six largest rivers combined. South America is also home to the world¡¯s
 tallest waterfall, Angel Falls, in the country of Venezuela. Water flows more
 than 979 meters (3,212 feet)?almost a mile. The falls are so high that most
 of the water evaporates into mist or is blown away by wind before it
 reaches the ground. South American rain forests contain an enormous
 wealth of animal and plant life. More than 15,000 species of plants and
 animals are found only in the Amazon River basin. Many Amazonian plant
 species are sources of food and medicine for the rest of the world. 
Scientists are trying to find ways to preserve this precious and fragile
 environment as people move into the Amazon basin and clear land for
 settlements and agriculture. Twelve independent countries make up South
 America: Brazil, Colombia, Argentina, Peru, Venezuela, Chile, Ecuador, 
Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, Guyana, and Suriname. The territories of French
 Guiana, part of France, and the Falkland Islands, part of the United
 Kingdom, are also part of South America. Almost all of South America sits
 on top of the South American Plate.&