Once upon a time, there lived a very powerful Sultan whose kingdom
stretched to the edges of the desert. One of his subjects was called Ali, 
a man who enjoyed making fun of his ruler. He invented all sorts of tales
about the Sultan and his Court, And folk would roar with laughter at his
jokes. Indeed, Ali became so well known that people pointed him out in the
street and chuckled.#
Ali's fun at the Sultan's expense reached the point where the Sultan himself
heard about it. Angry and insulted he ordered the guards to bring the joker
before him. "I shall punish him for his cheek", The Sultan said eagerly as he
rubbed his hands thinking of the good whipping he was about to administer.#
But when Ali was brought before him, he bowed, So low that his forehead 
scraped the floor. Giving the Sultan no time to open his mouth, Ali said,
"Sire! Please let me thank you for granting my dearest, I wish to look upon
you in person and tell you how greatly I admire your wisdom and 
handsome figure. I've written a poem about you. May I recite it to you?" 
Overwhelmed by this stream of word sand Ali's unexpected praise, 
The Sultan told him to recite his poem. In actual fact, Ali hadn't written a 
single word, So he had to invent it as he went along and this he did loudly 
comparing the Sultan's splendor to that of the sun, His strength to that of 
the tempest and his voice to the sound of the wind. Everyone applauded 
and cheered. Now quite charmed, the Sultan forgot why he had called Ali 
before him and clapped at the end of the poem in his honor.#
"Well done!" He cried. "You're a fine poet and deserve a reward. Choose 
one of these saddles as payment for your ability." Ali picked up a donkey's
saddle and thanking the Sultan, he hurried out of the palace with the 
saddle on his back. When people saw him rush along, they all asked him. 
"Ali, where are you going with that donkey's saddle on your back?" 
"I've just recited a poem in honor of the Sultan and he's given me one of 
his own robes as a reward!" And winking Ali pointed to the saddle!&, 