Antarctica is the windiest, driest, and iciest place on Earth. 
Antarctica is larger than Europe or Australia, 
but unlike those continents, it has no permanent population. 
People who work there are scientific researchers 
and support staff, such as pilots and cooks.
The climate of Antarctica makes it impossible 
to support agriculture or a permanent civilization. 
Temperatures in Antarctica, much lower than Arctic temperatures, 
plunge lower than -73 degrees Celsius (-100 degrees Fahrenheit).
Scientific bases and laboratories have been established 
in Antarctica for studies in fields that include geology,
oceanography, and meteorology. The freezing temperatures 
of Antarctica make it an excellent place to study the history 
of Earth¡¯s atmosphere and climate. 
Ice cores from the massive Antarctic ice sheet have recorded 
changes in Earth¡¯s temperature and atmospheric gases 
for thousands of years. Antarctica is also an ideal place 
for discoveringmeteorites, or stony objects that have impacted the Earth 
from outer space. The dark meteorites, often made of metals like iron, 
stand out from the white landscape of most of the continent.
Antarctica is almost completely covered with ice, 
sometimes as thick as 3.2 kilometers (2 miles). 
In winter, Antarctica¡¯s surface area may double 
as pack ice builds up in the ocean around the continent. 
Like all other continents, Antarctica has volcanic activity. 
The most active volcano is Mount Erebus, which is less 
than 1,392 kilometers (870 miles) from the South Pole. 
Its frequent eruptions are evidence of hot, 
molten rock beneath the continent¡¯s icy surface.
Antarctica does not have any countries. 
However, scientific groups from different countries 
inhabit the research stations. A multinational treaty negotiated in 1959 
and reviewed in 1991 states that research in Antarctica 
can only be used for peaceful purposes. McMurdo Station, 
the largest community in Antarctica, is operated by the United States. 
Vostok Station, where the coldest temperature on Earth was recorded,
is operated by Russia. All of Antarctica sits on the Antarctic Plate.&