In addition to being the smallest continent, 
Australia is the flattest and the second-driest, after Antarctica. 
The continent is sometimes called Oceania, 
to include the thousands of tiny islands of the Central 
and South Pacific, most notably Melanesia, Micronesia, 
and Polynesia (including the U.S. state of Hawaii). 
However, the continent of Australi itself includes 
only the nation of Australia, the eastern portion of the island 
of New Guinea (the nation of Papua New Guinea) 
and the island nation of New Zealand.
Australia covers just fewer than 8.5 million square kilometers 
(about 3.5 million square miles). Its population is about 31 million. 
It is the most sparsely populated continent, after Antarctica.
A plateau in the middle of mainland Australia makes up 
most of the continent¡¯s total area. Rainfall is light on the plateau, 
and not many people have settled there. The Great Dividing Range, 
a long mountain range, rises near the east coast and extends 
from the northern part of the territory of Queensland 
through the territories of New South Wales and Victoria. 
Mainland Australia is known for the Outback, a desert area in the interior. 
This area is so dry, hot, and barren that few people live there.
In addition to the hot plateaus and deserts in mainland Australia, 
the continent also features lush equatorial rain forests 
on the island of New Guinea, tropical beaches, 
and high mountain peaks and glaciers in New Zealand. 
Most of Australia¡¯s people live in cities along the southern 
and eastern coasts of the mainland. Major cities 
include Perth, Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, 
and Adelaide, all in Australia. 
Biologists who study animals consider Australia a living laboratory. 
When the continent began to break away from Antarctica 
more than 60 million years ago, 
it carried a cargoof animals with it. Isolated from life on other continents, 
the animals developed into creatures unique to Australia, 
such as the koala, the platypus, and the Tasmanian devil.
The Great Barrier Reef, off mainland Australia¡¯s northeast coast, 
is another living laboratory. The world¡¯s largest coral reef ecosystem, 
it is home to thousands of species of fish, sponges, 
marine mammals, corals, and crustaceans. 
The reef itself is 1,920 kilometers (1,200 miles) of living coral communities. 
By some estimates, it is the world¡¯s largest living organism.
Most of Australia sits on the Australian Plate. 
The southern part of the South Island of New Zealand sits on the Pacific Plate.&