North America, the third-largest continent, 
extends from the tiny Aleutian Islands 
in the northwest to the Isthmus of Panama in the south. 
The continent includes the enormous island of Greenland 
in the northeast. In the far north, the continent stretches halfway 
around the world, from Greenland to the Aleutians. 
But at Panama¡¯s narrowest part, the continent is 
just 50 kilometers (31 miles) across. 
Young mountains?including the Rockies, 
North America¡¯s largest chain?rise in the West. 
Some of the Earth¡¯s youngest mountains are found 
in the Cascade Range of the U.S. states of Washington, 
Oregon, and California. Some peaks there began to form 
only about a million years ago?a wink of an eye 
in Earth¡¯s long history. North America¡¯s older mountain ranges rise 
near the East Coast of the United States and Canada.
In between the mountain systems lie wide plains 
that contain deep, rich soil. Much of the soil was formed 
from material deposited during the most recent glacial period. 
This ice agereached its peak about 18,000 years ago. 
As glaciers retreated, streams of melted ice dropped sediment 
on the land, building layers of fertile soil in the plains region. 
Graingrown in this region, called the ¡°breadbasket of North America,¡±
feeds a large part of the world.
North America contains a variety of natural wonders.
Landforms and all types of vegetation can be found 
within its boundaries. North America has deep canyons, 
such as Copper Canyon in the Mexican state of Chihuahua. 
Yellowstone National Park, in the U.S. state of Wyoming, 
has some of the world¡¯s most active geysers. 
Canada¡¯s Bay of Fundy has the greatest variation 
of tide levels in the world. The Great Lakes form the planet¡¯s largest area 
of freshwater. In the U.S. state of California, giant sequoias, 
the world¡¯s most massive trees, grow more than 76 meters (250 feet) tall 
and nearly 31 meters (100 feet) around.
Greenland, off the east coast of Canada, is the world¡¯s largest island. 
Despite its name, Greenland is mostly covered with ice. 
Its ice is a remnant of the great ice sheets 
that once blanketed much of the North American continent. 
Greenland is the only place besides Antarctica that still has an ice sheet.
From the freezing Arctic to the tropical jungles of Central America, 
North America enjoys more climate variation 
than any other continent. Almost every type of ecosystem 
is represented somewhere on the continent, 
from coral reefs in the Caribbean to Greenland¡¯s ice sheet
to the Great Plains in the U.S. and Canada.
Today, North America is home to the citizens of Canada, 
the United States, Greenland, Mexico, Belize, Costa Rica, 
El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, 
and the island countries and territories that dot the Caribbean Sea 
and the western North Atlantic Ocean.
Most of North America sits on the North American Plate. 
Parts of the Canadian province of British Columbia 
and the U.S. states of Washington, Oregon, 
and California sit on the tiny Juan de Fuca Plate. Parts of California 
and the Mexican state of Baja California sit on the enormous Pacific Plate. 
Parts of Baja California and the Mexican states of Baja California Sur, 
Sonora, Sinaloa, and Jalisco sit on the Cocos Plate. 
The Caribbean Plate carries most of the small islands 
of the Caribbean Sea (south of the island of Cuba) as well as 
Central America from Honduras to Panama. The Hawaiian Islands, 
in the middle of the Pacific Ocean on the Pacific Plate, 
are usually considered part of North America.&